hi welcome to the organic kitchen I'm
Linda Spiker and today you're going to
caramelize pecans so caramelizing pecans
is easy but it does require a little bit
of technique you only need three things
three tablespoons of butter 1/3 cup
sugar and one cup pecans or if you
prefer you can use walnuts both pecans
and walnuts roast really well we're
going to put our butter into a pan and
let it melt before we add our pecans we
want to keep our heat at medium this
will allow our sugar to melt and our
pecans to toast without burning so just
be patient if it takes a little while it
can take a few minutes so we're going to
take our raw pecans we start with raw
nuts because we're going to toast them
as we caramelize them we're going to add
them to our butter we're just going to
give them a little flip I'm going to
show you how to do the flip in a minute
we want to flip our pecans so that they
are evenly covered with butter and later
we'll flip them again when we put the
sugar on caramelizing pecans is fun it
can be a little bit tricky don't be
discouraged if you lose some of the
pecans on your first few tries also
don't be discouraged if you burn your
sugar on the first few tries people
often tell me they don't succeed the
first two or three times they try so be
patient it'll come
so we're gonna make sure if the cons are
well coated with butter and well toasted
before we add our sugar and I'm going to
teach you a technique of the flip so
this is how we do the flip pick up our
pan and if your pan is heavy for you you
can use two hands but we give the pan a
little shake and we move the pecans back
and forth from the back to the front of
the pan and as they approached approach
this front lip you see they just want to
flip so you just give your pan a little
more umph and the pecans naturally flip
toward you
we're gonna keep roasting our pecans
until they're slightly Brown we want
them to be toasted and kind of crunchy
when we eat them so if we put the sugar
on too soon they won't be crunchy enough
so we want to make sure they're nicely
toasted I like to use caramelized pecans
in my salads and in my oatmeal in the
morning and I always make more than I
think I need because people come by and
take them straight out of the pan
they'll store nicely in your pantry
inside a Tupperware or a baggie for
about a month so make a lot while you're
making it okay so these look like
they're ready for their sugar they're
nicely toasted brown they're evenly
coated with butter they're nice and hot
so they'll melt our sugar so we're now
just going to take our third cup light
brown sugar and we're going to sprinkle
it on to our pecans I like to use just
regular CNH light brown sugar
I find it melts the best I have tried
organic sugars and they tend to clump up
so we'll sprinkle the pecans or the
walnuts or whatever nuts you prefer with
our brown sugar and we'll let it sit for
a few seconds and melt I do have to say
that pecans and walnuts work the best
for this technique because they have
nooks and crannies that hold onto the
sugar and the butter smoother nuts like
almonds or cashews tends to do better in
the oven so our pecans are nicely
toasted our sugar is melting our butter
looks great as soon as the sugar is
melted we're going to just pour our
pecans onto a plate and allow them to
cool
if you wish to use them quickly let's
say you made a salad and you didn't
think ahead and caramelize your nuts
ahead of time you can pop these into the
refrigerator or the freezer and in a few
minutes they'd all be cool enough to put
on your salad thanks for stopping by and
I hope you'll visit my online store the
organic kitchen store com